In previous video, we already learned about
bootstrap. Now, in this video, we are going
to learn about extends.
Okay let’s start.
Here we can see that we
have 3 url, which is hello_world, a, and b.
And each url using different function in views.
If we check in views.py, here we can see three
different function, and each function returning
different template files, which is hello_world.html,
a.html, and b.html.
Now, we have a problem. Let’s say we want
to have a navbar in each page,
so we need to put a navbar script in each template.
Now let’s open the browser, if we open hello_world
page, we will have a navbar. But if we try
to access a page, we don’t have a navbar here
And if we access b page, we also don’t
have a navbar here. Why? Because we just have navbar
script in hello_world.html, we don’t have
navbar script in a.html and b.html.
If we want to have a navbar in all of page,
so we need to add navbar script in each html file.
This is not best practice. Let’s say
in the future, we want to change the navbar menu,
and we already have many html file,
let’s say 10 html file. So we need to edit
10 file to change the navbar menu. That’s
only 10 html file, but how if we have 50 html file?
That’s will be absolutely wasting
time.
To solve this problem, we can create one file
named base.html, and then the others html
will extends to the base.html. We will only
need to put navbar script in the base.html
Let’s start coding! In the templates directory,
create a new file, the name will be base.html.
Now let’s move bootstrap script in hello_world.html
to base.html.
We can remove this line, because this is the part of hello_world.html.
Now let’s add block script here. Later this
block script will be replaced by unique script
in each html file.
Now let’s edit hello_world.html, here we
don’t need to write full html script anymore,
why? Because the complete html script already
in base.html, so we just need to extends from that file.
Here we can put block content,
don’t forget
to always put endblock in the end.
Inside this block content, we can put whatever we
want. Here I will put Hello World
and the variable from our context, which is name and
age.
Let’s go to browser, go to app1/hello_world.
And here we can see that we still have a navbar,
and we also get Hello World and Ahmad - 21
But if we try to access b, we still don’t
have a navbar, and also if we try to access
a, we also don’t have a navbar yet.
Now let’s try to edit a.hml & b.html.
Let’s remove all of the script, and copy
paste from hello_world.html.
Let’s change this to This is A,
and remove this one.
Let’s copy this script for B.
Let’s edit
this to B. Now let’s back to browser
refresh
and here, we can see that we have a navbar
in a. Let’s try to access b.
Here we can see that we also have a navbar in b.
So in the future, if we want to change the
navbar, we only need to edit base.html file.
Okay, I hope you guys understand about extends
in Django. If you have any questions,
feel free to ask me, and I will do my best to answer
all of your questions.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.